
.. _southlandsheroes:minotaur:

Minotaur
--------

Minotaur Traits
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Your minotaur character has several special traits.

**Ability Score Increase.** Your Strength score increases by 2, and your
Constitution score increases by 1.

**Age.** Minotaurs mature at roughly the same rate as humans but mature
3 years earlier. Childhood ends around the age of 10 and adulthood is
celebrated at 15.

**Alignment.** Minotaurs possess a wide range of alignments, just as
humans do. Mixing a love for personal freedom and respect for history
and tradition, the majority of minotaurs fall into neutral alignments.

**Size.** Adult males can reach a height of 6 1‚ÅÑ2 to 7 feet, with
females averaging 3 inches shorter. Your size is Medium.

**Speed.** Your base walking speed is 30 feet.

**Darkvision.** You can see in dim light within 60 feet of you as if it
were bright light, and in darkness as if it were dim light. You cannot
discern color in darkness, only shades of gray.

**Natural Attacks.** You have proficiency with your horns, which deal
1d6 piercing damage.

**Charge.** If you move at least 10 feet toward a target and hit it with
a horn attack in the same turn, you deal an extra 1d6 piercing damage
and you can shove the target as a bonus action. You can apply this extra
damage once per turn. At 11th level, when you successfully shove a
creature with Charge, you can push it 10 feet instead of 5. You can use
this ability a number of times equal to your Constitution modifier, and
you regain all expended uses when you finish a long rest.

**Labyrinth Sense.** You can retrace any path you have previously taken
without a check.

**Languages.** You can speak, read, and write Minotaur, as well as one
other language of your choice (typically the Trade Tongue or Southern
languages).

**Backgrounds.** Minotaurs in the Southlands are natural survivors and
commonly have the Guild Artisan, Outlander, Sailor, and Soldier
backgrounds.

