
.. _southlandsheroes:gnoll:

Gnoll
-----

Gnoll Traits
~~~~~~~~~~~~

Your gnoll character has several special traits, the result of
a wild nature and growing in a harsh environment.

**Ability Score Increase.** Your Strength score increases by 2.

**Age.** Gnolls reach adulthood at age 12, and they live short and
brutal lives. The rare examples that die of old age experience only
around 70 summers.

**Alignment.** As a product of a culture that values laziness,
selfishness, and dominance, most gnolls are evil. On top of that, an
unpredictable existence, where every day could be the last, usually
leads to a chaotic view of the world. With that said, there are always
exceptions to every norm.

**Size.** Gnoll females are taller and more powerfully built than their
male counterparts. The former range from 7 to 8 feet and usually weight
more than 250 pounds, while the latter average 6 inches and 30 pounds
less. Your size is Medium.

**Speed.** Your base walking speed is 30 feet.

**Darkvision.** You can see in dim light within 60 feet of you as if it
were bright light, and in darkness as if it were dim light. You cannot
discern color in darkness, only shades of gray.

**Scent.** You have advantage on Wisdom (Perception) checks that rely on
smell.

**Bully.** Although gnolls are cowardly at heart, they like to disguise
their fears by abusing others. You have disadvantage on saving throws
against being :ref:`srd:frightened`. On the other hand, whenever you
make a Charisma (Intimidation) check for dealing with obviously smaller
or weaker targets, you are considered proficient in the Intimidation
skill and add double your proficiency bonus to the check, instead of
your normal proficiency bonus.

**Live to Fight Another Day.** When you take the Disengage action, your
base walking speed is increased by 10 feet.

**Gnoll Weapon Training.** You have proficiency with the spear,
shortbow, longbow, light crossbow, and heavy crossbow.

**Languages.** You can speak, read, and write Southern and Gnollish.
Gnollish words sounds almost like growls for the uninitiated, and gnolls
tend to use scents and small gestures to convey subtle meanings. Two
gnolls speaking can almost seem like dogs barking at each other to a
casual observer.

**Subraces.** Although not, strictly speaking, different races, gnolls
from the civilized lands live in an environment so different than their
savage brethren that they are considered separate subraces. Choose one
of them.

Civilized Gnolls
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

As a civilized gnoll, you are well-fed and enjoy the comforts that your
primitive cousins can only dream of. You were valued as a mercenary, a
temple guard, or simply a thug due to both your inherent toughness and
your desire to please those that are in charge.

**Ability Score Increase.** Your Constitution score increases by 1.

**Obsequious.** Whenever you make a Charisma (Persuasion) check for
dealing with obviously bigger or more powerful targets, you are
considered proficient in the Persuasion skill and add double your
proficiency bonus to the check, instead of your normal proficiency
bonus.

Savage Gnolls
^^^^^^^^^^^^^

As a savage gnoll, you are in touch with your animal side and understand
the ways of nature. Your tribe has been raiding the desert or the plains
since generations ago, and you know the land in which you live like the
back of your hand.

**Ability Score Increase.** Your Wisdom score increases by 1.

**Scavenge.** Whenever you make a Wisdom (Survival) check for gathering
food or locating water, you are considered proficient in the Survival
skill and add double your proficiency bonus to the check, instead of
your normal proficiency bonus.

