
.. _southlandsheroes:lizardfolk:

Lizardfolk
----------

Lizardfolk Traits
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

As a lizardfolk, your heritage is ancient and your patience and
endurance far greater than most. Your people are hunters and raiders,
and entirely at home in marshes and water. You gain the following
traits.

**Ability Score Increase.** Your Strength score increases by 2, and your
Wisdom score increases by 1.

**Age.** Lizardfolk mature faster than humans, reaching adulthood at 16.
They also have shorter lifespans, with few lizardfolk living longer than
60 years.

**Alignment.** Typical lizardfolk are highly territorial, following the
beliefs and traditions of their tribes. They have no notion of civilized
morality, and they find the concepts of good and evil alien. As such,
lizardfolk tend toward neutrality. Lizardfolk who choose to leave their
villages, or who are banished, may do so for a variety of reasons,
including an alignment conflicting with typical lizardfolk society.

**Size.** Lizardfolk are slightly larger than the average human. Your
size is medium.

**Speed.** Your base walking speed is 30 feet. You have a swim speed of
30 feet.

**Natural Armor.** If you are not wearing armor, your base AC equals 12
+ your Dexterity modifier. You can use a shield and still gain this
benefit.

**Natural Attacks.** You have proficiency with your bite, which deals
1d6 piercing damage.

**Natural Predator.** You have proficiency with the Stealth skill.

**Hold Breath.** You can hold your breath for a number of minutes equal
to your Constitution score.

**Languages.** You speak, read, and write Draconic, plus one additional
language of your choice (typically Southern).

Lizardfolk Racial Variants
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Lizardfolk have developed a range of abilities beyond those that are
adapted for life in the swamp, and the race shows more variation than
some.

The lizardfolk choose up to two of the following variants, so long as
the two do not conflict by replacing the same ability. For instance,
both Gout of Blood and Poisonous Bite replace your bite ability, so you
cannot choose those two together. Likewise, Climber and Chromatophore
both replace swim speed, so those can also not be chosen together.

**Climber.** While climbing you suffer no movement penalties, you are
considered proficient in the Athletics skill, and add double your
proficiency bonus to checks made to climb, instead of your normal
proficiency bonus. This ability replaces your swim speed and hold breath
abilities.

**Chromatophore.** You can alter the color of your skin and can blend
into your environment. You gain advantage on Stealth checks made to hide
as long as you are not moving. If you are wearing no armor and carrying
no items, you may attempt to hide even if you have no cover or
obscurement. You can’t use this ability to hide while you are being
directly observed. This ability replaces your swim speed and hold breath
abilities.

**Digger.** You can burrow through soft sand, dirt, and mud at a rate of
10 feet per round. This ability replaces your swim speed ability.

**Glider.** You take no damage from falls. You gain a fly speed of 40
feet but cannot hover. At the end of any round you fly, you must have
descended at least one-quarter the distance you traveled or you fall.
This ability replaces your swim speed and hold breath abilities.

**Gout of Blood.** Some lizardfolk can force a jet of hot blood from
their eyes to disorient predators and prey. As an action, you can target
any creature within 15 feet with this ability and force the target to
make a Wisdom saving throw against a DC equal to 8 + your proficiency
modifier + your Dexterity modifier. On a failed save, the target is
:ref:`srd:frightened`. The frightened creature can repeat this save at
the end of each of its turns, ending the condition on a success.
Creatures wearing full-face helmets, eye protection, etc. gain advantage
on the save. You may use this ability a number of times per day equal to
your Constitution modifier, and you regain all expended uses when you
finish a long rest. This ability replaces your bite attack.

**Regeneration.** Some lizardfolk heal at an impressive rate. Whenever
you spend at least one Hit Die to regain hit points during a short rest,
you regain an additional number of hit points equal to twice your
Constitution modifier. Severed fingers and toes regrow after 24 hours.
Severed hands and feet regrow after three days. Severed limbs regrow
after one week. If the severed body part is present and whole, you can
reattach it during a short rest as long as you spend at least one Hit
Die to regain hit points and perform no other actions, even light
duties. You gain one level of :ref:`srd:exhaustion` when you begin
regenerating a limb. While a limb is regenerating, as well as for one
day after the regrowth is complete, you cannot have less than one level
of :ref:`srd:exhaustion`. This ability replaces your natural armor and
natural predator abilities.

**Poisoned Bite.** Lizardfolk are sometimes born with venomous fangs or
poisonous saliva delivered through their bite attack. You can make a
bite as an unarmed strike that deals piercing damage. On a successful
bite attack, the target must make a Constitution saving throw against a
DC equal to 8 + your proficiency modifier + your Constitution modifier.
On a failed save, the target gains the :ref:`srd:poisoned` condition for 1 minute.
The target can repeat the save at the end of its turn, ending the effect
on a success. On a successful save or when the poisoned condition ends,
the target becomes immune to your poison for 24 hours. You may use this
ability a number of times per day equal to your Constitution modifier,
and you regain all expended uses when you finish a long rest. This
ability replaces your bite, natural armor, swim speed, and hold breath
abilities.

**Purple-Blooded.** Some lizardfolk carry waste products through their
blood, excreting toxins that build up in their systems and granting
resistance to infections. You gain advantage on saving throws against
poisons and diseases. This ability replaces your natural armor.

**Pygmy.** Many remote tribes of lizardfolk are much smaller than their
common kin. Your Dexterity increases by +2 and your Wisdom increases by
+1. Your size becomes Small. This replaces your normal ability score
bonus and your Medium size.

New Lizardfolk Class Archetypes
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Lizardfolk dwell far from the trappings of civilization, and learn to
live in a hostile world. Techniques that serve urban races fall short in
the harsh wilderness of the Southlands, and so lizardfolk rogues
capitalize on their reptilian nature to become more efficient killers.
Lizardfolk characters follow their class progression normally, but
replace several class features for the variants described below.

Ambush Predator (Assassin)
""""""""""""""""""""""""""

Assassins among the lizardfolk gain little benefit from impersonating
another creature, and so they developed an alternate method for dealing
death to their enemies. A lizardfolk’s low metabolism allows some to
wait in perfect ambush points for hours or days at a time. She strikes
without warning, ending a victim’s life with a rapid violent assault.

**Killer’s Craft.** At 3rd level, you gain proficiency with the
poisoner’s kit. Additionally, you can use the bonus action granted by
your Cunning Action to apply poison to a weapon. This ability replaces
Bonus Proficiencies.

**Patience.** At 9th level, you learn to wait in a single spot with
infinite patience. As long as you don’t move, you have advantage on any
saving throw against falling asleep or succumbing to
:ref:`srd:exhaustion`. While you remain stationary you can undertake
light activity (to remain on watch only) for the entire duration of a
long rest, and still gain its benefits. If you move, or engage in any
other sort of activity, you must rest as normal for the remainder of the
long rest to complete it. This ability replaces Infiltration Expertise.

**Sniper.** At 13th level, you do not automatically reveal your location
when you attack while hidden. You must be at least 10 feet away from any
creature that could potentially hear or see you to use this ability.
Whenever you attack, you can make a new Dexterity (Stealth) check. Any
creature that might detect you gains advantage on its passive Wisdom
(Perception) score. If successful, you remain hidden. This ability
replaces Imposter.

