
.. _southlandsheroes:werelion:

Werelion
--------

Werelion Traits
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Natural werelions are human in appearance but are natural shapechangers,
able to assume a hybrid leonine form and the form of a lion. Your
character possesses the following traits.

**Ability Score Increase.** Your Wisdom score increases by 2, and your
Strength score increases by 1.

**Age.** Although human in both appearance and origin, werelions’
lycanthropic physiology allows them to live several decades longer than
humans.

**Alignment.** Naturally rebellious, werelions often leave familial
prides when they come of age. Although passionate about family,
werelions are fiercely independent. The average werelion is neutral in
alignment, balancing personal freedom with dedication to their pride.

**Size.** In humanoid form, natural werelions appear to be strong,
muscular humans with long, thick hair, and fluid, graceful movements.
Your size is Medium in your humanoid and hybrid forms, but may be Medium
or Large in your lion forms.

**Speed.** Your base walking speed is 30 feet.

**Darkvision.** You can see in dim light within 60 feet of you as if it
were bright light, and in darkness as if it were dim light. You cannot
discern color in darkness, only shades of gray.

**Natural Shapechanger.** Natural werelions possess the magical ability
to assume two alternate forms—the hybrid leonine and the lion. As an
action, you can change into either your hybrid leonine form or your lion
form. You can remain in this form for 1 hour, reverting to your humanoid
form when the time expires, you fall :ref:`srd:unconscious`, you drop to
0 hit points, or you die.

You can revert to your humanoid form early as a bonus action. Once you
use this ability, you can’t use it again until you finish a short rest.

**Hybrid Form.** In your hybrid leonine form you grow sharp teeth and
claws, and take on a more intimidating feline appearance. In this hybrid
form you may use weapons, wear armor, and carry equipment normally. Your
base walking speed increases to 40 feet. You have proficiency with your
claws and bite. Your claws deal 1d4 slashing damage, and are considered
light weapons. Your bite deals 1d4 piercing damage.

In addition, you gain advantage on Charisma (Intimidate) checks, and
Wisdom (Perception) checks that rely on smell. You gain disadvantage on
Intelligence checks and all other Charisma checks.

**Lion Form.** You may assume the form of a young lion (use the stat
block for the :ref:`srd:panther`) as if using the druid’s Wild Shape
class feature. Unlike that feature, you retain your own hit points
between forms. At 8th level you instead assume the form of a full-grown
:ref:`srd:lion` when you use this ability.

**Languages.** You can speak, read, and write Southern and Sylvan.
